# Towards a (Self) Sovereign Money System promoting financial stability and economic growth equivalent to fractional reserve banking
This repo was created for the ethglobal hackathon https://ethglobal.com/events/scaling2023 March 10-31, 2023. 

There are two deliverables in this project
- A draft of a working paper can be found in the `article` folder. The current version is more of a brain dump of the research I did and the papers I read during the first week of the hackathon, but it is more or less ready to be made beautiful. It includes all relevant theories, formulas, and argumentation used in the prototype.
- A Minimal Viable Prototype of the system can be found in the `prototype` folder. Please refer to the readme in this folder for more info.   

## Abstract

This working paper introduces a novel Self-Sovereign Money System (SSMS) designed to address the financial instability inherent to the existing Fractional Reserve Banking (xRB) system while also mitigating concerns regarding loan pricing and availability associated with alternative systems such as Full Reserve Banking (FRB), Sovereign Money System (SMS), and Decentralized Finance (DeFi). The proposed system achieves sufficient maturity transformation, that is, matching short-term savings to fund long-term debts, by allowing savers to sell the debt they funded in the market or directly to the system, thus eliminating the possibility of bank runs. The entire system is transparently defined and autonomously executed through the use of blockchain technology, where the governing body can be a Sovereign entity such as a Central Bank or a decentralized entity such as a Decentralized Autonomous Organisation (DAO). The proposed system operates through a native currency, the Self-Sovereign Token (SST), interchangeable with a Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC). Loans are facilitated by pooling savers' SST and generating new SST when necessary to meet loan demand. Savers, including the system itself, obtain proportional ownership of the loan pool, represented by a Pooled Debt Token (PDT). The PDT acts as a pass-through mechanism, distributing repayments with interest to its holders, while the system burns all its repayments to counteract inflation. The PDT's value in SST is autonomously, continuously, and transparently determined based on external market forces and underlying loan variables, addressing the critical shortcomings of Collateralized Debt Obligations, the traditional instruments to pool loans that caused the financial crisis of 2008. The system can also stabilize market prices, similar to a central bank's function. Savers can sell their PDT to withdraw savings, eliminating bank-run risks. Moreover, interest rates are also autonomously adjusted to promote stable economic growth equal to nominal GDP growth of 3\%. The working paper presents the theory and a prototype implementation of this system, applicable to both sovereign nations and decentralized global economies.